# CryptoClustering

## Project Overview

This project aims to predict whether cryptocurrencies are affected by 24-hour or 7-day price changes using unsupervised learning techniques. The project involves comparing the performance of a scaled DataFrame (DF) and Principal Component Analysis (PCA) in predicting price changes.

## Installation

To run this project locally, please ensure you have the following dependencies installed:

- Python (version 3.10.11)
- Jupyter Notebook (version 6.5.4)
- Additional libraries (Pandas, hvplot, KMeans, PCA, StandardScaller)

Clone this repository to your local machine using the following command:


git clone https://github.com/carobdin/CryptoClustering.git
   


## Dataset

The dataset used for this project consists of historical cryptocurrency price data, including the 24-hour and 7-day price changes. The dataset can be obtained from [https://static.bc-edx.com/data/dl-1-2/m19/lms/starter/Starter_Code.zip].

## Usage

1. Open Jupyter Notebook by running the command `jupyter notebook` in your terminal.
2. Navigate to the project directory and open the `Crypto_Clustering.ipynb` file.
3. Follow the instructions provided in the notebook to execute the code cells and analyze the results.

## Results

After creating two different scatter plots, one using the scaled data and the other using PCA, it was observed that the PCA scatter plot demonstrated better results compared to the scaled one. The PCA scatter plot clearly showcased the presence of four distinct clusters, making it easier to identify and analyze the data. This highlights the effectiveness of using PCA for dimensionality reduction and visualization in this particular context.

## References

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

## Contact

For any questions or inquiries, please contact Caroline Bordin at caroline.bordin9@gmail.com.
